PEM - 9.4 release branch (#4941)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pem/9/tuning_performance/performance_diagnostic.mdx

To analyze the wait states data on multiple levels, narrow down the data you select. The data you select at the higher level of the graph populates the lower level.

> !!! Note

Reviewer: Why do we mention RHEL and CentOS here? I think we can just remove this entire note.

Author: Slack thread for this note: https://edb.slack.com/archives/GDTA6A51P/p1698210038839939?thread_ts=1697796450.680159&cid=GDTA6A51P

Can we include this as note?
Performance Diagnostics is available for all the Postgres variants and versions, for which the EDB wait states module is available. EDB wait states is available on:
         • EDB Postgres Advanced Server and PostgreSQL version 11 and later
         • EDB Postgres Extended version 11 and later

Author: @sonotley, do you agree with this, or shall I remove the note?

Reviewer: I would suggest simplifying it even further to the following, then we won't have to update it again when 11 goes EOL.

> Performance Diagnostics is available for all the Postgres variants and versions, for which the EDB wait states module is available.

Author: Done

  By default, the duration selection in the first graph is 15 minutes. The duration can be extended up to one hour. To see the duration on a graph, select a duration from the **Last** list. To display the data for a specified date and time, select a date and time from the **Until** list.

- The next section plots the following graphs based on the selected duration in the first graph:

  - Donut graph &mdash; Shows total wait event types and CPU usage according to the duration selection in the first graph. It can provide a better understanding of how much time was spent by those sessions on waiting for an event.
   
  - Line graph &mdash; Plots a time series with each point representing the active sessions for each sample time.

  To differentiate each wait event type and the CPU usage more clearly, the graph for each wait event type displays in a different color.

  Select a time on the Line graph to analyze the wait events. To show or hide a wait event type in all the graphs, select the graph legends. The analysis is simpler when you can only see the wait event types you want to analyze. 

  

> - The third section displays the wait event details in the Performance Diagnostics dashboard based on your selected duration in the second graph. It displays the wait event details on two tabs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The third section displays the wait event details in the Performance Diagnostic dashboard based on your selected duration in the second graph. It displays the wait event details on two tabs:
```

>   - The **Summary** tab displays the list of top 15 SQL queries with query id's, total CPU events, percentage of CPU usage, wait events, and execution count for the selected time interval. This SQL queries are grouped into four different categories:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The **Summary** tab displays the list of top 15 SQL queries with query IDs, total CPU events, percentage of CPU usage, wait events, and execution count for the selected time interval. This SQL queries are grouped into four categories:
```

>     - Top queries by wait events &mdash; Lists the queries across all the sessions for the selected sample time that have spent the longest time in wait states. It displays the query ID, query, total wait events, waiting time in percentage, wait events and the execution count along with number of users executed that query in the number of databases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Top queries by wait events** &mdash; Lists the queries across all the sessions for the selected sample time that have spent the longest time in wait states. It displays the query ID, query, total wait events, waiting time in percentage, wait events, and the execution count along with number of users that executed that query in the number of databases.
```

>     - Top queries by CPU usage &mdash; Lists the queries across all the sessions for the selected sample time that have used the most CPU time. It displays the query ID, query, total CPU events, CPU usage percentage, wait events, and execution count along with number of users executed that query in the number of databases. The data in the table is in decreasing order of the number of CPU events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Top queries by CPU usage** &mdash; Lists the queries across all the sessions for the selected sample time that used the most CPU time. It displays the query ID, query, total CPU events, CPU usage percentage, wait events, and execution count along with the number of users that executed that query in the number of databases. The data in the table is in decreasing order of the number of CPU events.
```

>     - Top users by wait events &mdash; Lists the users across all the sessions for the selected sample time whose queries have spent the longest time in wait states. It displays the usernames, database name, total wait events, waiting time percentage, wait events and the number of queries that have spent the longest time in wait states.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Top users by wait events** &mdash; Lists the users across all the sessions for the selected sample time whose queries have spent the longest time in wait states. It displays the usernames, database name, total wait events, waiting time percentage, wait events, and the number of queries that have spent the longest time in wait states.
```

>     - Top users by CPU usage &mdash; Lists the users across all the sessions for the selected sample time whose queries have used the most CPU time. It displays the username, database name, total CPU events, CPU usage percentage, wait events, and the number of queries that have used the most CPU time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Top users by CPU usage** &mdash; Lists the users across all the sessions for the selected sample time whose queries used the most CPU time. It displays the username, database name, total CPU events, CPU usage percentage, wait events, and the number of queries that used the most CPU time.
```

  - The **Sample Selection** tab displays the details of the wait events for the selected sample time in the second graph. The wait events are grouped by:

    - **Queries** &mdash; Lists the queries along with query IDs and number of sessions that executed the query in the selected sample time. 
    

>       Select the eye in any row to display a new window with details on the query of that row. For more information, see [Query information](#query-information) section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Select the eye in any row to display a window with details about that query. For more information, see [Query information](#query-information).
```

    
    - **Users** &mdash; Lists the details of the wait events grouped by users that executed the queries along with the number of events and execution count of the query.
    

>     - **Waits** &mdash; Lists number of wait events belonging to each wait event type for the selected sample time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Waits** &mdash; Lists the number of wait events belonging to each wait event type for the selected sample time.
```

    
You can filter the data displayed in the rows under both the tabs. You can also sort the data alphabetically by selecting the column headers.

#### Query information

> Query information windows opens, when you select the eye in any row of the **Queries** grouping under **Sample Selection** tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To open the query information window, select the eye in any row of the **Queries** grouping under the **Sample Selection** tab.
```

> This window displays a query ID and its corresponding session IDs in a list at that selected sample time in the **Query information** section. You can select the **Session ID** list for the selected query that you want to analyze the data. The details corresponding to the selected session ID and query ID appear. The **Query information** table also displays the SQL query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This window displays a query ID and its corresponding session IDs in a list at that selected sample time in the **Query information** section. You can select the **Session ID** list for the selected query whose data you want to analyze. The details corresponding to the selected session ID and query ID appear. The **Query information** table also displays the SQL query.
```

- The next section plots the following graphs based on the selected duration in the first graph:

  - Donut graph &mdash; Shows total wait event types and CPU usage according to the duration selection in the first graph. It can provide a better understanding of how much time was spent by those sessions on waiting for an event.
   
  - Line graph &mdash; Plots a time series with each point representing the active sessions for each sample time.

  To differentiate each wait event type and the CPU usage more clearly, the graph for each wait event type displays in a different color.

  Select a time on the Line graph to analyze the wait events. To show or hide a wait event type in all the graphs, select the graph legends. The analysis is simpler when you can only see the wait event types you want to analyze. 

  
- The third section displays the wait event details in the Performance Diagnostics dashboard based on your selected duration in the second graph. It displays the wait event details on two tabs:

>   - The **Summary** tab displays the list of top 50 SQL queries with query id's, total CPU events, percentage of CPU usage, wait events, and execution count for the selected time interval. This SQL queries are grouped into four different categories:

Reviewer 3: top 15 (not top 50)

    
    - Top queries by CPU usage &mdash; Lists the queries across all the sessions for the selected sample time that have used the most CPU time. It displays the query ID, query, total CPU events, CPU usage percentage, wait events, and execution count along with number of users executed that query in the number of databases. The data in the table is in decreasing order of the number of CPU events.
    
    - Top users by wait events &mdash; Lists the users across all the sessions for the selected sample time whose queries have spent the longest time in wait states. It displays the usernames, database name, total wait events, waiting time percentage, wait events and the number of queries that have spent the longest time in wait states.
    
    - Top users by CPU usage &mdash; Lists the users across all the sessions for the selected sample time whose queries have used the most CPU time. It displays the username, database name, total CPU events, CPU usage percentage, wait events, and the number of queries that have used the most CPU time.

>   - The **Sample Selection** tab displays the details of the wait events for the selected sample time grouped by:

Reviewer 3: This information is missing.

`
Select a time on the Line graph to analyze the wait events. The third section displays the wait event details in the Performance Diagnostics dashboard based on your selected duration in the second graph.
`

> To open the Performance Diagnostic dashboard in a new browser tab, select **Preferences > Open in New Browser Tab?**.

Reviewer: GitHub won't let me comment on this sentence (line 77) because it's not part of the diff, but this doesn't make sense to me. What is the 15 seconds about? I think the sentence would be correct if we just removed "and in the last 15 seconds", what do you think @asheshv ?

> Each point of this time series represents the active sessions along with the wait events at a particular time and in the last 15 seconds.

Reviewer 3: @sonotley - Each point is sum of the wait events & CPU in last 15 seconds from that moment.
Actually - it does not represent number of active sessions for sure.

We can change it to something like as below:
> Each point of this time series represents the sum of wait events & CPU (aggregated by 15 seconds).

Author: @sonotley, let me know your thoughts on this.

Reviewer: I didn't know we were performing aggregation, I thought each point was a single sample - how else does the sample selection behaviour work @asheshv ? If we are aggregating then I suggest: 

> Each point of this time series represents the sum of wait events & CPU over the previous 15 seconds.

### Performance Diagnostic dashboard

- The first graph displays the number of active sessions and wait event types for the selected duration. You can change the duration in the first graph to analyze the data for a specific time period.

>   By default, the duration selection in the first graph is 15 minutes. The duration can be extended upto one hour. To see the duration on a graph, select a duration from the **Last** list. To display the data for a specified date and time, select a date and time from the **Until** list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  By default, the duration selection in the first graph is 15 minutes. The duration can be extended up to one hour. To see the duration on a graph, select a duration from the **Last** list. To display the data for a specified date and time, select a date and time from the **Until** list.
```
